New release announcement (#49)
OpenRA/OpenRAWebsiteV3: news/_posts/2023-10-10-release-20231010.md

---
kind: article
title: "Release 20231010 and the Community"
author: "The OpenRA Team"
created_at: 2023-10-10 18:00 +0000
disqus_id: "release-20231010"
permalink: "/news/release-20231010/"
---

> With two months of successful playtesting behind us, we are pleased to finally announce [Release 20231010]({{ '/download' | relative_url }}), which brings the public release up to date with development changes from November 2022 through to August 2023. The new release contains some long-awaited UI and UX improvements and many polish changes overall. This release serves as a jump off point for many of the larger projects, so do expect great things in the future!

Reviewer: We should specify which larger projects, just from this its not clear whether you mean mods, tournaments or development projects.

Author: I do not want to mention specifics, but as for decreasing the scale of the umbrella I'm not sure which words to use. Perhaps renaming projects to features?

Reviewer: `his release serves as a jump off point for many of the larger upcoming features`?

> With one month of successful playtesting behind us, we are pleased to finally announce [Release 20231010]({{ '/download' | relative_url }}), which brings the public release up to date with development changes from November 2022 through to August 2023. The new release contains some long-awaited UI and UX improvements and many polish changes overall. This release serves as a jumping off point for many of the larger projects, so do expect great things in the future!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With one month of successful playtesting behind us, we are pleased to finally announce [Release 20231010]({{ '/download' | relative_url }}), which brings the public release up to date with development changes from November 2022 through to August 2023. The new release contains some long-awaited UI and UX improvements and many polish changes overall. This release serves as a jump off point for many of the larger projects, so do expect great things in the future!
```
? Not a native speaker either, though.

<figure>
   <video autoplay loop muted>
    <source src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darkcolors.mp4' | relative_url }}" type="video/mp4">
    <source src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darkcolors.webm' | relative_url }}" type="video/webm">
    <img src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darkcolors.png' | relative_url }}"/>
  </video>
  <figcaption>Restored the ability to select darker player colors.</figcaption>
</figure>

> For more information see the other newsposts [[one]({{ '/news/playtest-20230801/' | relative_url }}), [two]({{ '/news/playtest-20230808/' | relative_url }})], [three]({{ '/news/playtest-20230927/' | relative_url }})] and, as always, for a full overview - [the full changelog](https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRA/wiki/Changelog/).

Reviewer: Reminder: Fixed changelog URL.

Author: added

> While OpenRA's releases have slowed down due to lack of manpower, our third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod & standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) was the second most popular on ModDB in June this year. It includes units from various CnC games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most anticipated RTS's. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as other videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While OpenRA's releases have slowed down due to lack of manpower, our third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod & standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) was the second most popular on ModDB in June this year. It includes units from various C&C games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a complete game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most anticipated RTS's. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as other videos.
```

`most anticipated RTS releases this season/year`?

We should also drop "as well as other videos." which is vague and not adding anything for the reader. Maybe link to their Youtube channel instead? (As text link)

Reviewer: Hm I meant "complete" as in standalone not using any C&C assets but just the engine.

> While OpenRA's releases have slowed down as to lack of manpower, out third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod & standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) had become second place in popularity on ModDB June this year. It includes units from various CnC games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most enticipated RTS's. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as other videos.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While OpenRA's releases have slowed down due to lack of manpower, our third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod and standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) was the second most popular on ModDB in June this year. It includes units from various CnC games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most anticipated RTS's. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as other videos.
```

<figure>
  <lite-youtube videoid="1OY_k4S2LVY"></lite-youtube>
</figure>

> Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left left the development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 branch. Its units and balance is heavily inspired by Command & Conquer: Generals.

Reviewer: SP and RV should get a big ⚠️ that the engine isn't completed to support TS/RA2 like mods yet.

Author: Yeah, but they are very playable and quite polished

Author: I have played these mods a lot, especially Shattered Paradise, having won 3 tourneys and placed highly in the other 2. It really feels like a fully shippable game and not really a ⚠️

Reviewer: > It really feels like a fully shippable game and not really a ⚠️

Maybe it does, but our TS engine is not.

> Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with heavy Command and Conquer 3 incluence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left left development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by other developers under open source. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 branch. Its units and balance is heavilly inpired by Command & Conquer: Generals.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left the development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by other developers under open source. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 branch. Its units and balance is heavily inspired by Command & Conquer: Generals.
```

> Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with heavy Command and Conquer 3 incluence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left left development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by other developers under open source. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 branch. Its units and balance is heavilly inpired by Command & Conquer: Generals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with heavy Command and Conquer 3 incluence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left left development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 branch. Its units and balance is heavilly inpired by Command & Conquer: Generals.
```

> All the aforementioned games are standalone, though non-original games may require you to own the copy-rightted assets. Some of these games choose to contribute back to the OpenRA project, and we greatly appreciate all the help we can get.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the aforementioned games are standalone, though non-original games may require you to own the copy-righted assets. Some of these games choose to contribute back to the OpenRA project, and we greatly appreciate all the help we can get.
```

> All the aforementioned games are standalone, though non-original games may require you to own the copy-rightted assets. Some of these games choose to contribute back to the OpenRA project, and we greatly appreciate all the help we can get.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the aforementioned games are standalone, though non-original games may require you to own the copyrighted assets. Some of these games choose to contribute back to the OpenRA project, and we greatly appreciate all the help we can get.
```

There are also many promising OpenRA based games in progress, including [OpenE2140](https://www.moddb.com/mods/opene2140), a remake of the old Earth 2140. A monster game [Cameo](https://www.moddb.com/mods/cameo) featuring over 200 playable factions (subfactions included in the count) from a massive selection of games.

> Our competitive community is going strong as well. [Red Alert Global League Season 15](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21802) has just started, and for Halloween you can expect [Dark Tournament VII](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21787), for which registrations are currently open. [RAGL's 14th season](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21739) was wrapped up about 4 months ago, and for its coverage you can checkout the [Weekly Highlight forum posts](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21755), casted by [Kaution](https://www.youtube.com/@kaution6829) and [here is the link to the playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Osa6aH5Y75I&list=PLHuw_QR21dC_kKaYagJR-KCgZH2s_KHaz). There are also plenty of other creators covering the tournament: [FiveAces Shoutcasts](https://www.youtube.com/@CovertFlobert), [Blackened's video reviews](https://www.youtube.com/@Blackeneds_Barracks) or [Milkman's streams](https://www.twitch.tv/mm_openra/videos).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our competitive community is going strong as well. [Red Alert Global League Season 15](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21802) has just started, and for Halloween you can expect [Dark Tournament VII](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21787), for which registrations are currently open. [RAGL's 14th season](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21739) was wrapped up about 4 months ago, and for its coverage you can checkout the [Weekly Highlight forum posts](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21755), casted by [Kaution](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Osa6aH5Y75I&list=PLHuw_QR21dC_kKaYagJR-KCgZH2s_KHaz). There are also plenty of other creators covering the tournament: [FiveAces Shoutcasts](https://www.youtube.com/@CovertFlobert), [Blackened's video reviews](https://www.youtube.com/@Blackeneds_Barracks) or [Milkman's streams](https://www.twitch.tv/mm_openra/videos).
```

The playlist already points to his channel and this reads not as awkward.

> Our competitive community is going strong as well. [Red Alert Global League 15th season](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21802) has just started, and for Halloweeen you can expect [Dark Tournament VII](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21787), registrations are currently open. [RAGL's 14th season](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21739) has wrapped up about 4 months ago, and for its coverage you can chekout [Weekly Highlight forum posts](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21755), casted by [Kaution](https://www.youtube.com/@kaution6829) and [here is the link to the playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Osa6aH5Y75I&list=PLHuw_QR21dC_kKaYagJR-KCgZH2s_KHaz). There are also plenty of other creators covering the tournament: [FiveAces Shoutcasts](https://www.youtube.com/@CovertFlobert), [Blackened's video reviews](https://www.youtube.com/@Blackeneds_Barracks) or [Milkman's streams](https://www.twitch.tv/mm_openra/videos).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our competitive community is going strong as well. [Red Alert Global League Season 15](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21802) has just started, and for Halloween you can expect [Dark Tournament VII](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21787), for which registrations are currently open. [RAGL's 14th season](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21739) was wrapped up about 4 months ago, and for its coverage you can checkout the [Weekly Highlight forum posts](https://forum.openra.net/viewtopic.php?f=85&t=21755), casted by [Kaution](https://www.youtube.com/@kaution6829) and [here is the link to the playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Osa6aH5Y75I&list=PLHuw_QR21dC_kKaYagJR-KCgZH2s_KHaz). There are also plenty of other creators covering the tournament: [FiveAces Shoutcasts](https://www.youtube.com/@CovertFlobert), [Blackened's video reviews](https://www.youtube.com/@Blackeneds_Barracks) or [Milkman's streams](https://www.twitch.tv/mm_openra/videos).
```

<figure>
  <img src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darktournament.jpg' | relative_url }}" style="width: 800px" alt="Dark Tournament VII" />
</figure>

> And as last time, we would like mention that this release contains significant progress towards C&C Remastered Collection support, including compatibility with the new EA app. The "Tiberian Dawn HD" project is a separate release and can be [downloaded here](https://github.com/OpenRA/TiberianDawnHD/releases/tag/release-20231010). This preview is multiplayer-compatible with the main 20231010 release. However, please keep in mind that performance, memory usage and loading times have not been fully optimized yet. The C&C Remastered Collection must be installed through Steam or the EA App, and in case you are using macOS or Linux the project README provides you [detailed installation instructions](https://github.com/OpenRA/TiberianDawnHD#asset-installation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And as last time, we would like to mention that this release contains significant progress towards C&C Remastered Collection support, including compatibility with the new EA app. The "Tiberian Dawn HD" project is a separate release and can be [downloaded here](https://github.com/OpenRA/TiberianDawnHD/releases/tag/release-20231010). This preview is multiplayer-compatible with the main 20231010 release. However, please keep in mind that performance, memory usage and loading times have not been fully optimized yet. The C&C Remastered Collection must be installed through Steam or the EA App, and in case you are using macOS or Linux the project README provides you [detailed installation instructions](https://github.com/OpenRA/TiberianDawnHD#asset-installation).
```

---
kind: article
title: "Release 20231010 and the Community"
author: "The OpenRA Team"
created_at: 2023-10-10 18:00 +0000
disqus_id: "release-20231010"
permalink: "/news/release-20231010/"
---

> With two months of successful playtesting behind us, we are pleased to finally announce [Release 20231010]({{ '/download' | relative_url }}), which brings the public release up to date with development changes from November 2022 through to August 2023. The new release contains some long-awaited UI and UX improvements and many polish changes overall. This release serves as a jump off point for many of the larger upcoming features, so do expect great things in the future!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With two months of successful playtesting behind us, we are pleased to finally announce [Release 20231010]({{ '/download' | relative_url }}), which brings the public release up to date with development changes from November 2022 through to August 2023. The new release contains some long-awaited UI and UX improvements and many polish changes overall. It also serves as a jump-off point for many of the larger upcoming features, so do expect great things in the future!
```

<figure>
   <video autoplay loop muted>
    <source src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darkcolors.mp4' | relative_url }}" type="video/mp4">
    <source src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darkcolors.webm' | relative_url }}" type="video/webm">
    <img src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-darkcolors.png' | relative_url }}"/>
  </video>

>   <figcaption>Restored the ability to select darker player colors.</figcaption>

Reviewer: This needs to be
```suggestion
  <figcaption>The ability to select darker player colors has been restored.</figcaption>
```

to read as a functioning sentence/caption.

Author: sure

</figure>

> For more information see the other newsposts [[one]({{ '/news/playtest-20230801/' | relative_url }}), [two]({{ '/news/playtest-20230808/' | relative_url }})], [three]({{ '/news/playtest-20230927/' | relative_url }})] and, as always, for a full overview - [the full changelog](https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRA/wiki/Changelog/08829bc0e6a1bf62aa7797fcfc0a9810d27e81d2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information see the other newsposts [[one]({{ '/news/playtest-20230801/' | relative_url }}), [two]({{ '/news/playtest-20230808/' | relative_url }}), [three]({{ '/news/playtest-20230927/' | relative_url }})] and, as always, for a full overview - [the full changelog](https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRA/wiki/Changelog/08829bc0e6a1bf62aa7797fcfc0a9810d27e81d2).
```

> While OpenRA's releases have slowed down due to lack of manpower, our third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod & standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) was the second most popular on ModDB in June this year. It includes units from various C&C games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most anticipated RTS's. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as [other videos](https://www.youtube.com/@dorf-rts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While OpenRA's releases have slowed down due to lack of manpower, our third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod & standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) was the second most popular on ModDB in June this year. It includes units from various C&C games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most anticipated RTSes. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as [other videos](https://www.youtube.com/@dorf-rts).
```

It's a plural not a possessive form.

Author: when not in possession it seems the correct way of writing shortforms it seems is just an s without an apostrophe

Reviewer: Except in cases where the word already ends with an `s`.

Reviewer: https://www.merriam-webster.com/grammar/how-to-use-plural-s-and-es-exceptions-grammar

Reviewer: We could also avoid that by writing `one of the most anticipated RTS releases` (or `games` instead of `releases`).

Author: I'm going with the latter suggestion, as RTSes looks weird. I don't think that rule applies to shortforms too

<figure>
  <lite-youtube videoid="1OY_k4S2LVY"></lite-youtube>
  <img src="{{ '/images/news/20231010-dorf.png' | relative_url }}"/>
</figure>

> Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left the development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 branch. Its units and balance is heavily inspired by Command & Conquer: Generals.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) - an expansion for Tiberian Sun on OpenRA which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv) - a continuation of the Hard Vacuum project, which was originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left the development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 mod. Its units and balance is heavily inspired by Command & Conquer: Generals.
```

Author: I specifically wanted to break the pattern here

> Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) - an expansion for OpenRA's work-in-progress Tiberian Sun mod which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. A continuation of the Hard Vacuum project [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv). Originally inspired by Dune 2, but with its ambitious goals it never left the development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 mod. Its units and balance is heavily inspired by Command & Conquer: Generals.

Reviewer: Can we make this a bullet point list?

Author: If I were to mention more mods. I don't think I can make bullet points work with this much text combined with few bullets

Reviewer: The problem is this reads like a bullet point list without bullet points, it is really jarring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other popular mods include: [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) - an expansion for OpenRA's work-in-progress Tiberian Sun mod which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel. [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv), a continuation of the Hard Vacuum project which was originally inspired by Dune 2. But with its ambitious goals it never left the development stage and had its assets released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers. [Romanov's Vengeance](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance) is based on OpenRA's work-in-progress Red Alert 2 mod. Its units and balance is heavily inspired by Command & Conquer: Generals.
```

Reviewer: ![grafik](https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRAWebsiteV3/assets/7704140/201f5fc4-9778-4ae4-b765-71ef3af34005)
A list works better Imo.

Author: This looks pretty decent

All the aforementioned games are standalone, though non-original games may require you to own the copyrighted assets. Some of these games choose to contribute back to the OpenRA project, and we greatly appreciate all the help we can get.

> There are also many promising OpenRA based games in progress, including [OpenE2140](https://www.moddb.com/mods/opene2140) - a remake of the old Earth 2140. A monster game [Cameo](https://www.moddb.com/mods/cameo) featuring over 200 playable factions (subfactions included in the count) from a massive selection of games, currently in alpha stage of development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also many promising OpenRA based games in progress, including [OpenE2140](https://www.moddb.com/mods/opene2140) - a remake of the old Earth 2140. A monster game [Cameo](https://www.moddb.com/mods/cameo) featuring over 200 playable factions (subfactions included in the count) from a massive selection of games, currently in development.
```

While OpenRA's releases have slowed down due to lack of manpower, our third party scene is going strong! An OpenRA mod & standalone game [Combined Arms](https://www.moddb.com/mods/command-conquer-combined-arms) was the second most popular on ModDB in June this year. It includes units from various C&C games and has 5 factions, each having 5 subfactions. Its newest installment contains 25 singleplayer missions. [DORF Real-Time Strategic Conflict](https://www.dorf-rts.com), a game based on OpenRA's engine has become one of the most anticipated RTS games. We highly encourage everyone to checkout its gameplay trailer as well as [other videos](https://www.youtube.com/@dorf-rts).

<figure>
  <lite-youtube videoid="1OY_k4S2LVY"></lite-youtube>
</figure>

Other popular mods include:
- [Shattered Paradise](https://www.moddb.com/mods/shattered-paradise) - an expansion for OpenRA's work-in-progress Tiberian Sun mod which in addition to GDI and Nod has Mutant, C.A.B.A.L. and Scrin factions. It is a gorgeous and over the top game with a heavy Command and Conquer 3 influence that attempts to add more variety while preserving the vanilla TS feel.

> - [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv) - a continuation of the Hard Vacuum project. Originally inspired by Dune 2, with its ambitious goals never having left the development stage, the project's assets were released under a free license. Now has now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [OpenHV](https://openhv.itch.io/openhv) - a continuation of the Hard Vacuum project. Originally inspired by Dune 2, with its ambitious goals never having left the development stage, the project's assets were released under a free license. Now the mantle has been taken up by open source developers.
```
